Increase in WAN TFTP sync speeds (#1526)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/administration/pages/tshoot-highsynctimesoverwan.adoc

[[troubleshooting-high-sync-times-over-wan]]
= Troubleshooting high sync times between {productname} Server and Proxy over WAN connections

////
PUT THIS COMMENT AT THE TOP OF TROUBLESHOOTING SECTIONS

Troubleshooting format:

One sentence each:
Cause: What created the problem?
Consequence: What does the user see when this happens?
Fix: What can the user do to fix this problem?
Result: What happens after the user has completed the fix?

If more detailed instructions are required, put them in a "Resolving" procedure:
.Procedure: Resolving Widget Wobbles
. First step
. Another step
. Last step
////

> Depending on what changes are executed in the WebUI or via an API call to distribution or system settings, [literal]``cobbler sync`` command may be required to transfer files from {productname} server to {productname} Proxy systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on what changes are executed in the WebUI or via an API call to distribution or system settings, [literal]``cobbler sync`` command may be required to transfer files from {productname} Server to {productname} Proxy systems.
```

> To accomplish this, cobbler uses a list of proxies specified in [literal]``/etc/cobbler/settingsl``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accomplish this, cobbler uses a list of proxies specified in [literal]``/etc/cobbler/settings``.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To accomplish this, cobbler uses a list of proxies specified in [literal]``/etc/cobbler/settings.yaml``.
```

> Due to its design, [literal]``cobbler sync`` is not able to sync only the changed or recently added files.
> 
> Instead, executing [literal]``cobbler sync`` triggers a full sync of the [literal]``/srv/tftpboot`` directory to all specified proxies configured in [literal]``/etc/cobbler/settings``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[literal]``cobbler sync`` does not sync only the changed or recently added files.
Executing [literal]``cobbler sync`` triggers a full sync of the [literal]``/srv/tftpboot`` directory to all specified proxies configured in [literal]``/etc/cobbler/settings``.
```

It is also influenced by the latency of the WAN connection between the involved systems.

> The process of syncing may take a considerable amount of time to finish according to the logs in [literal]`` /var/log/cobbler/``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process of syncing may take a considerable amount of time to finish according to the logs in [literal]``/var/log/cobbler/``.
```

> In one example, it started at:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, it started at:
```

----
Thu Jun  3 14:47:35 2021 - DEBUG | running python triggers from /var/lib/cobbler/triggers/task/sync/pre/*
Thu Jun  3 14:47:35 2021 - DEBUG | running shell triggers from /var/lib/cobbler/triggers/task/sync/pre/*
----

and ended at:

----
Thu Jun  3 15:18:49 2021 - DEBUG | running shell triggers from /var/lib/cobbler/triggers/task/sync/post/*
Thu Jun  3 15:18:49 2021 - DEBUG | shell triggers finished successfully
----

The transfer amount was roughly 1.8 GB.
The transfer took almost 30 minutes.

By comparison, copying a single big file of the same size as [literal]``/srv/tftboot`` completes  within several minutes.

//== Resolution and analysis
Switching to an [literal]``rsync``-based approach to copy files between {productname} Server and Proxy may help to reduce the transfer and wait times.

> To accomplish this task, a script has been developed.
> It is available for download at <https://suse.my.salesforce.com/sfc/p/1i000000gLOd/a/1i000000ll5B/B2AmvIJN2_JsAyjTQzCVP_x5ioVgd0bYN9X9NpMugS8>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A script to accomplish this task is available for download at https://suse.my.salesforce.com/sfc/p/1i000000gLOd/a/1i000000ll5B/B2AmvIJN2_JsAyjTQzCVP_x5ioVgd0bYN9X9NpMugS8.
```

The script does not accept command line options.
Before running the script, you need to manually edit it and set correctly [literal]``SUMAHOSTNAME``, [literal]``SUMAIP`` and [literal]``SUMAPROXY1`` variables for it to work correctly.

[WARNING]
====
There is no support available for individual adjustments of the script.

> The script and the comments inside aim to provide a good overview of the process and steps to be taken into consideration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script and the comments inside aim to provide an overview of the process and steps to be taken into consideration.
```

If further help is required, contact SUSE Consulting.
====

The proposed approach using the script is beneficial in the following environment:

* SUSE Manager Proxy systems are connected via a WAN connection;
* [literal]``/srv/tftboot`` contains a high number of files for distributions and client PXE boot files, in total several thousand files;
* Any proxy in [literal]``/etc/cobbler/settingsl`` has been disabled, otherwise {productname} will continue to sync content to the proxies.
+
----
#proxies:
# - "sumaproxy.sumaproxy.test"
# - "sumaproxy2.sumaproxy.test"
----

Procedure: Analyze new sync speed

> . Take a TCPdump between SUSE Manager and the involved systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Take a dump of the TCP traffic between {productname} and the involved systems.
```

* On SUSE Manager Server:
+
----

>   tcpdump -i ethX -s 200 host <ip-address-of-susemanagerproxy> and not ssh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tcpdump -i ethX -s 200 host <ip-address-of-susemanagerproxy> and not ssh
```

----
+
* On SUSE Manager Proxy:
+
----

>   tcpdump -i ethX -s 200 host <ip-address-of-susemanager> and not ssh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tcpdump -i ethX -s 200 host <ip-address-of-susemanager> and not ssh
```

----
+
* This will only capture a package size of 200 which is sufficient to run an analysis.

> * Adjust ethX to the respective network interface SUSE Manager uses to communicate with the proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adjust ethX to the respective network interface {productname} uses to communicate with the proxy.
```
